A Modern Approach
There are several more modern tools
capable of enumerating AD environments.
PowerShell cmdlets like Get-ADUser
work well but they are only installed
by default on domain controllers
and they require administrative privileges
to use when installed on workstations.
We can, however, use PowerShell
to enumerate AD.
We will develop a script that
will enumerate the AD users
along with all the properties
of each user accounts.
Although this is not as simple as
running a command like net.exe,
the script will be much more flexible,
allowing us to add features
and functions as needed.
As we build the script, we
will discuss the various
technical details about
how it works.
As an overview, our script will query
the network for the name
of the Primary domain controller
emulator and the domain,
search Active Directory and filter
the output to display user accounts,
and finally clean up the
output so it’s easier to read.
This script relies on a few components.
Specifically, we will use a
DirectorySearcher object,
to query Active Directory using LDAP,
which is a network protocol
understood by domain controllers.
LDAP is essentially an API that
supports search functionality
against an Active Directory.
This will allow us to interface with
the domain controller using PowerShell
and obtain non-privileged information
about the objects in the domain.
Our script relies on a very specific
LDAP provider path
which will be input to the
DirectorySearcher .NET class.
To create the path, we
need the target hostname,
which in this case is the name
of the domain controller,
and the DistinguishedName
of the domain,
which has a particular naming standard
based on specific Domain Components.
First, let’s discover the hostname
of the domain controller
and the components of
the DistinguishedName
using a PowerShell command.
Specifically, we will use the Domain class
of the System.DirectoryServices.
ActiveDirectory namespace.
The Domain class contains a
method called GetCurrentDomain,
that will retrieve the Domain object
for the currently logged in user.
According to the Name property, the
domain name is “corp.com”
and the primary domain
controller is “DC01.corp.com”.
We can use this information to
programmatically build
the LDAP provider path.
Let’s include the Name and
PdcRoleOwner properties
in a simple PowerShell script
that builds the provider path.
In this script, $domainObj will
store the entire domain object,
$PDC will store the Name of the PDC,
and $SearchString will build the
provider path for output.
Notice that the DistinguishedName
will consist of our domain name,
corp.com, broken down into
individual domain components.
This makes the DistinguishedName
“DC=corp,DC=com”.
Our current script outputs
the full LDAP provider path
needed to perform LDAP queries
against the domain controller.
We can now instantiate the
DirectorySearcher class
with the LDAP provider path.
To use the DirectorySearcher class,
we have to specify a SearchRoot,
which is the node in the Active Directory
hierarchy where searches start.
The search root takes the
form of an object instantiated
from the DirectoryEntry class.
When no arguments are
passed to the constructor,
the search will return results
from the entire Active Directory.
With our DirectorySearcher object
ready, we can perform a search.
However, without any filters, it will
list all objects in the entire domain.
One way to set up a filter is through
the samAccountType attribute,
which is an attribute that all user,
computer, and group objects have.
In our case, we supply a filter value to
enumerate all users in the domain.
We add the samAccountType filter
through the .filter
of our $Searcher object property,
and then invoke the FindAll method
to start a search and find
all results matching the filter.
This is good information but we
should clean it up a bit.
This is good information but
we should clean it up a bit.
Since the attributes of an user object
are stored within the Properties field,
we can add a double loop that will
print each property on its own line.
The complete PowerShell
script will collect
all users along with
their attributes.
The output can be overwhelming since
user objects have many attributes.
Using our DirectorySearcher object,
we could use a filter
to locate members of specific
groups like Domain Admin,
or use a filter to specifically search
only for the Jeff_Admin user.
We can set any attribute of the
object type in the filter property.
For example, we can
use the name property
to create a filter for
the Jeff_Admin account
According to the output,
is a member of the
Domain Admins group.
Although this script may seem complicated
at first, it is extremely flexible
and can be modified to perform
other AD enumeration tasks.